Jim D Eugenio is a veteran author and
researcher lately focusing on JFK's
foreign policy he's the author of
destiny betrayed and reclaiming parkland
we're gonna talk a little bit about this
William Turner KPFA 1967 interview Jimmy
had a chance to look it over you want to
tell us a little bit about William
Turner and yeah sure but Bill Turner
bill Turner was a longtime FBI agent I
think he worked in the FBI for something
like 10 years he then decided well
there's a debate as to whether he
stepped down or he was forced out but he
had some problems with some of the
things that Hoover was doing all right
and he took them public and either way
he was retired from the FBI after about
10 years I believe it was in the late
50s very early 60s that he he stepped
out from the FBI he then began his
journalistic career he wrote both
magazine articles and books and almost
all of his books even today are still
pretty valuable the the book he did for
example in the Robert Kennedy
assassination co-authored with John
Christian was is still one of the best
books on the RFK assassination the book
he co-authored with Warren Hinkle the
fishes read is another very good book on
the on the JFK case he one of the main
places where he wrote for was ramparts
magazine the legendary ramparts magazine
which under Warren Hinkle the editorship
of Warren Hinkle was in my opinion and
the opinion very many other people was a
finest magazine ever published in the
United States after World War 2 there
really hasn't been anything else that's
even come close to the achievement of
ramparts under Warren
and Bill did some very good articles one
of the articles he did was about the
Minutemen organization he had this
extraordinary source for that magazine
article who had essentially defected
from the Minutemen and given bill a
wealth of information about some very
strange activities they were
participating in especially in the south
and so when garrison started his
investigation of the JFK case this is
one of the angles he was exploring you
know the the militant right wing angle
and so he got into contact with Bill
after his article appeared in ramparts
and he asked him to come down and have a
brainstorm session with him
and so he did and this is how bill
eventually became one of the deputies on
Garrison's case he and as you'll see in
this in this interview at this time late
1967 he'd already spent about two weeks
actually in the office most of the time
bill stayed at his home in California
and garrison then gave him assignments
to do all right on the west coast now
bill ended up staying around all the way
in fact I've seen memos by Bill as late
as 1969 on the eve of the Clay Shaw
trial and he actually wrote a manuscript
about garrison which he actually had a
perspective buyer for in fact in this
interview you'll see - moderator
mentions it okay called the garrison
case but what happened is you know after
the Clay Shaw trial failed they mutually
agreed to go ahead and withdraw the book
now bill if you ask me Bill Turner's
articles in ramparts on garrison were in
my opinion the best articles written
about Jim Garrison in the in the
mainstream press and remember ramparts
had about 250,000 circulation at that
time which which was quite a lot and so
a lot of people readin put Garrison on
the cover right
Warren Hinkle had to fight off certain
people in the ramparts office who didn't
want to go down this angle of the
Kennedy assassination but Hinkle thought
that it was worthwhile because he had
read the Warren Commission volumes and
he said he stopped reading at about
volume 14 because by then he had decided
the thing was a joke and the last thing
the people in the Warren Commission
wanted to find out was who killed
Kennedy all right and so that's why he
decided to go ahead and write about
garrison and Bill wrote if I remember
correctly three or four articles in in
ramparts about Jim Garrison and they
were all quite valuable and the
moderator mentions one here the inquest
which I think was his first article
which was which is really quite good
even well worth reading today and so
bill was I guess you could say back then
the only journalist in America who was
actually writing
giving garrison a fair shake in you know
in the press and like I said ramparts
had a very good circulation of about
250,000 at its pinnacle now Cal verb was
a researcher the other person being
interviewed in the San Francisco area
who had served I believe in the in the
armed services and knew a lot about
military intelligence and Calend it up
being a pretty good researcher he passed
away a few years ago unfortunately you
know and he ended up writing for some
Kennedy assassination journals like the
third decade in the fourth decade you
know very reputable guy all right and
they bring up some certain points in
this interview which I wasn't even aware
of myself I am one of the very few
people I mean there's only about four of
us in the whole country who had access
to what was left of garrison his files
because Jim Garrison's children let me
and a couple other people copy them why
were you know while we were in New
Orleans this was in the late actually
the mid 90s
but bill talks about some things in here
which is are not in those files which I
think you can deduce rather logically
and I've maintained this for years and
years and years that what we have of
Garrison's files today is I would say at
the most 60% of what Jim Garrison
actually had in his archive the rest of
it was stolen by CIA agents who were
planted in his office a lot of it was
destroyed by Harry Connick B who
succeeded him as da and incinerated a
lot of the stuff and then there were
several file cabinets that garrison gave
to a friend of his to store for him in
his garage and those ended up being
stolen and so it's a real shame that we
simply don't have anywhere near what
really garrison had discovered in in in
New Orleans during is two-year long
investigation but bill brings up a
couple of things that garrison had like
for instance in talking about Jack Ruby
he talks about how the police turned
over a source for him for them that
needed the job and Ruby went ahead gave
him a certain amount of money and told
him to go to Alexandria Louisiana
checking of the hotel and somebody will
contact you further and so if you go
ahead and follow the conversation you
know the guy who contacted him was
Oswald all right okay that's in well
that's sent about halfway through the
conversation and then he also talks
about a guy named Don Norton now Don
Norton has a little bit more exposure
that part of the story has a little bit
more exposure I actually saw a file on
that but he was a career for the CIA and
he said but one part of the story was
that you know that he had been a courier
for the CIA and that he recalled Oswald
as being one of the people involved in
the CIA at
that time and he also recalled David
Ferrie
as being one of the people that he would
go ahead and and get and bring money to
from the CIA so this you know so there
are some things in here this Turner
interview with inhale verb that are
pretty rare and it's much worth reading
for those purposes I am in the studio
with William Turner a staff writer of
ramparts magazine and author of a
forthcoming book police USA which will
be published by Putnam invisible witness
bobbs-merrill the garrison case award
books mr. Turner is a former FBI agent
he wrote the inquest in June ramparts
outlining Garrison's case and the press
vs garrison in the September ramparts
this is not mr. Turner's first
appearance in our studio um quite a
number of years ago now several years
ago mr. Turner appeared over this
station when he was originally in the
process of leaving the FBI and made us
no more popular with the authorities and
so he's been a lot of places and done a
lot of things since then the second
person we have with us is mr. Harold
VirB who has been is a reporter for the
Berkeley barb and has also been doing
some work at San Francisco State
conducting a seminar I believe on the
assassination of President Kennedy and
the Warren Commission report now what
we've asked these two to come and chat
with us about is what's going on in New
Orleans and what role Jim Garrison has
played in this where it is now and what
how they estimate its significance its
relevance is it more than simply a
theory that mr. garrison is working with
perhaps you could bring us up to date on
some of the facts mr. Turner I'd be glad
to
talk about Jim Garrison's case actually
garrison first got into the
assassination investigation the day
after the assassination on that Saturday
why he called a what he called a
brainstorming session of his staff and
they went over any possible New Orleans
angles or persons who were erratic
enough to have been involved in a
conspiracy and at that time they came up
with the name of David William ferry who
you recall died this year on February
22nd after he was became involved in
Garrison's current investigation now at
that time ferry had made a rather
mysterious trip the state of Texas
leaving the afternoon of the
assassination and in that trip he went
first to Houston by car where he
appeared at an ice skating rink and
according to the owner now he stood by
the telephone for several hours on that
Saturday afternoon he apparently
received a call and then went to
Galveston
now garrison was waiting for him when he
got back on Sunday to New Orleans and
picked him up and turned him over to the
FBI for interrogation because of the
very suspicious nature of this trip in
other words garrison thought it was a
very curious trip by a curious man at a
curious time the FBI released him and
apparently the reason was that number
one ferry had not left on that trip
until after well after the assassination
say five or six hours and also because
they determined that his small airplane
was not air worthy at the time and
therefore he couldn't have been in on an
escape plan now there the matter rested
and in Garrett as garrison puts it he
said I had confidence in the competency
of the FBI he himself is a former agent
of the FBI was in
proximately a year and interestingly
enough he was in the same office that I
was in Seattle so it was not until last
fall when he was riding a plane to New
York with senator Russell long of
Louisiana that he his interest was
renewed apparently they were discussing
the various books that had come out and
long senator long made the statement
that he really believed that there was
more to it than Oswald and they
conversed on it when garrison got back
to New Orleans he went into virtual
seclusion poring over the Warren Report
and it's volumes and he quietly launched
his inquiry and on the basis of the
initial returns in this inquiry he
became convinced that indeed there was
an assassination plot and that the
assassination plot had at least one
aspect in New Orleans so that is how he
got started on it and as you know it's
still going on well in what form is it
still going on would one of you look I
mean how is he proceeding at this point
and where does he intend to is it just
simply become a private investigation
now there's nobody up for trial at the
moment well yes there is a Clay Shaw is
scheduled for trial but let me put it
this way that Shaw was arrested oh I
believe it was the latter part of
February and through all kinds of legal
maneuvering
I'm maneuvering is the word of the judge
down there not mine it's been postponed
and held off and a trial date has not
yet been set however garrison stresses
that he does not believe that Shaw is at
the center of any web of conspiracy that
he is a peripheral participant in this
and therefore he has made a motion in
open court to speed up the trial of Shaw
so that he can sort of clear the decks
with his own investigation as it is he
has held up with all his legal motions
in the Shaw case he does not have a
greatly enlarged staff and they have
their normal caseload criminal case load
to handle and he also has been subjected
to attacks from Life magazine which
insinuates that he is somehow
sympathetic to organized crime which is
laughable because probably of all the
district attorneys in the nation he has
done more to clean up organized crime
than anyone by NBC CBS the bulk of the
national media the mass media and
therefore he would like to be able to
devote more time to the investigation
but he does have an investigation he's
got main files that are set up somewhat
like the FBI's he has a an archivist to
handle a garrison archives he has men
who are specializing in the Kennedy
assassination investigation and I've
spent a total of two weeks inside his
office down there and every day there's
a there's a new angle well tell me in as
much as there must be quite a few people
who wish he would dry up and blow away
tan he at prosecuting attorney just sit
there and utilized that much taxpayers
money to follow up on something simply
because he believes in it is there any
chance of or possibility of actual
either legal or political pressure to
make him stop this there have been all
kinds of pressures brought to bear now
garrison was carrying on his inquiry in
secret this is this is the best way of
course to carry on an inquiry at least
at its initial stages now the state's
item newspaper New Orleans check the
disbursements of his office and found
that there were exorbitant what they
considered exorbitant travel expenses
people were going to Miami they're going
to Chicago San Francisco and this is the
way they got wind of what he was doing
and they broke it in the paper
well garrison at that time number one
there was allowed hue and cry that he
was expending public funds on a wild
goose chase now he didn't want to come
out and release all his evidence to
substantiate that it was not a wild
goose chase
therefore they formed a group
businessmen in New Orleans formed a
group called Truth or Consequences
incorporated which is privately
financing the assassination
investigation they they signed up a
contribute so much a month and this is
what is really subsidizing his
assassination investigation but through
the prosecuting attorney's office or
separate from the prosecuting attorney's
office
well through the office through the
office now you've mentioned pressures
brought to bear you get in his office
down there and you almost feel like
you're in a and then maybe a Russian
embassy on US soil the way he's been
treated for one thing there is an
organization down there called the
Metropolitan Crime Commission an F an
ex-fbi agent by the name of Aaron Cohen
is ahead of this now
of course this is again a privately
subsidized operation and mr. Cohen has
to have organized crime around and in
order for himself to exist and it seems
that since garrison investigation has
come up Cohen has been inordinately
active in trying to say that there's
organized crime in in the parish of
Orleans he's been called before the
grand jury down there several times to
try and specify what he means by this
and he's been unable to do so
nevertheless there there is one pressure
point as I mentioned the national press
is another pressure point Bobby
Kennedy's emissary Walter Sheridan had
was down there from the inception of
Garrison's investigation and he has
attempted Allah there are legal there's
a legal allegation that he has attempted
public bribery and getting to Garrison's
witnesses
it has alleged that Perry Russo who was
a key witness in the Shaw case was
offered sum of money by Sheridan
Sheridan allegedly told them that we'll
get you to California and they won't be
able to extradite you from there and
various other types of either
intimidation or lures that's they've
been using the carrot and stick down
there yes no yes one of the things that
the bill has mentioned are these
different pressure points and he's
pointed out the press nationally and
locally has not given the garrison case
a fair shake we can speak about the
local press here I think the only fair
shake that they've given garrison is
that there is no news that is covered
and local press here that gives anything
that he says to counter charges that are
made against him I'll specifically
mention one for example when Life
magazine said that garrison had been
connected with the Mafia
and this was reported in the press
garrison had made an instant reply to
that and he said I don't even know
Carlos marchello and that was the
specific individual who Life magazine
had tied in with I wouldn't even know
him if he were sitting right here next
to me now this thing has never even
appeared locally I doubt if there are
few people here in the Bay Area who even
or in the whole state for that matter
who even know about this remark this is
typical NBC CBS will present their
program giving their version of what
they say are both sides of the story
when in fact it is only one side yes I
believe you had something about some TV
coverage that you wanted to talk about
would this be the time that you would
like to go into that a little more fully
yes there seems to have been what I
would regard as a massive attempt to if
not obstruct the investigation to at
least put obstacles in the way over
there would prevent garrisons case from
really coming to court or at least
having his say with respect to what he
is presented now for example CBS
presented
for part series late in the summer and
it was the end of June in which they
made references to specifically to
Garrison's case and one of the things
that they mentioned was the kind of
attempts that were made by Garrison's
officers allegedly what they said to
bribe and intimidate witnesses and for
example they pointed to a writer for the
this is a quote from one of the
transcripts that I have of the four-part
series they said there was a writer for
The Saturday Evening Post who said he
had read transcripts of what went on at
those sessions now the fact is that
there were never any such transcripts
and this writer had actually seen scan
burrs notes and what this writer was
trying to show was that this particular
person had written a document or
statements in which he had said that a
key witness in this probe hurry Raymond
Rousseau had lied about what he had
presented as evidence the fact is that
this was never the case because there
were in fact memorandums that were
prepared and that this writer actually
was aware of the existence of these
memorandums now this did not get into
the TV coverage well where would you
like to go from here on this what is
Garrison's theory I mean what you say
that that the man Shaw Ferry is dead
there seem to be in here a lot of dead
people right so ferries dead whatever it
was he was supposed to be doing now what
about Shaw and what what is garrison is
overall well alright in broad terms that
is this and I think that this will also
explain the orchestrated attack on him
garrison believes that Oswald number one
was a CIA agent and that he probably had
been trained at the asougi base in Japan
when he was in the Marine Corps this
would have been back around 1957 58
Atsugi reportedly is a u2 installation
and in the restricted documents that
still classified documents and the
archives is a very tantalizing one
entitled Oswald's access to u2
information now necessarily this means
that when I went to the Soviet Union he
was a CIA operative and of course
there's liberal evidence to back this up
most of it suggestive or rather than
direct but for one thing when he came
back he told a fellow employee in Dallas
what he's working on a photographic lab
about the disbursement of Soviet
military forces how they did not
intermingle their armoured divisions
with infantry and and then he said I
didn't notice any vapour trails over
minx
thanks cos where he was when he was in
the Soviet Union for most of the stay
now garrison believes that Oswald's
leftist activity in New Orleans and
Dallas his attempts to insinuate himself
into the confidence of the fair play for
Cuba committee the Socialist Workers
Party the Communist Party USA was
nothing more than an attempt to erect a
facade such a facade would have given
him perhaps easier access to communist
countries it would have given him once
in a freer movement
now when oz will went to the Soviet
embassy or in pardoning the Cuban
embassy in Mexico City he very carefully
listed all these affiliations with these
groups which of course existed only in
his own mind he never was formally
accepted into any of them know who was
house well then if he if he was not
really a leftist who was he well
garrisons evidence will show that oswald
was affiliated with a
group in New Orleans which was
anti-castro in nature and was
paramilitary in nature that was composed
of down in that area there is a
tremendous cross pollenization of people
who are members of the Minutemen who are
Cuban exiles violently opposed to Castro
who are even members of the KKK and it
was with one of these factions with whom
Oswald was travelling now with that in
mind why how does the CIA come into it
because garrison believes that CIA is
the one or the reason that there is this
orchestrated attack on them well very
simply it was a CIA which sponsored
these anti-castro groups which were
supposed to even after the Bay of Pigs
failure never relinquished their dreams
of reinvade in Cuba
and as a matter of fact these groups
were very active in training in the in
the environs of New Orleans garrison
found a one of their of bases where one
of the founders of the Minutemen had
been arrested by the FBI and secretly
let go his name never appeared in the
newspapers these people became very
disenchanted with President Kennedy
after all what they called all his
promises about freeing Cuba and not
coming through and then his apparent
reproach 'men with Cuba which was in the
works at the time of the assassination
was being handled through the Cuban
ambassador la Chamba and the United
Nations and through an intermediary
a ABC News woman who was on very close
personal terms Lisa Howard very close
personal terms with Castro with so what
garrison believes is these anti-castro
groups which had been nurtured by the
CIA one of the factions a spinoff from
this
got out of hand setup as well as the
Patsy and assassinated Kennedy and in
Dealey Plaza and deal in other words he
doesn't think that the CIA ordered
ordered Kennedy's assassination but
simply that a group that had been
involved and Brian and by the CIA with
its own way
right the CIA by its very nature is
compartment ties their cellularly uh
like they used to talk about Communist
Party cells and how one didn't know the
other and this is exactly the structure
the CIA and it's very easy for one of
these cells CIA cells to becoming so
involved in deceit duplicity
assassination murder to go off and do
something like this and the the
operation at Dealey Plaza had all the
earmarks of a paramilitary type of
ambush no question about it
and Ferry and Shaw were involved in that
group is that now the legal allegations
against Shaw are that he conspired it's
a conspiracy charge in New Orleans with
David Ferrie and Oswald to assassinate
the president he Garrison's legal bill a
particular states at a session in which
they discussed and planned an
assassination talk or particulars
culminated in what happened at Dealey
Plaza and as I said before however
garrison has gone no farther and his
charges on Shaw however he has
independent evidence to to back up
Shaw's identity as clay Bertrand as you
as you may know that is a big bone of
contention Shaw says he is not clay
Bertram garrison says he is now clay
Bertram was comes into it this way
immediately after the assassination a
New Orleans attorney Dean Andrews who
had handled what he calls the gay
Swisher's in New Orleans
and also Oswald
we'll apparently wanted his discharge
changed said that immediately after the
assassination received a phone call from
this man whom he knew as clay Bertram
and clay Bertram was a man who had
referred Oswald to his office and he
said that he bertram asked him if he
would defend oswald against the
assassination charges of course before
anything further could be done Oswald
himself was killed now as I say it is
part of Garrison's allegations that Clay
Shaw is in fact the man using the name
clay Bertram and this intends to prove
in court also the facts of the
conspiracy now one of the allegations in
to prove this is that Clay Shaw met in
Baton Rouge with Jack Ruby and with
Oswald and he has witnessed the
testifies to that will testify to this
so this is a the case against Shaw which
as I say is up for and has not yet been
set on the calendar but will come off
late this year or early next does he
have any witnesses who claim to be to
have been a member of this group
themselves or is this all inferential
well do you know whether or not he in
anyone within the the little right wing
CIA whatever you want to call it type
group that this plant took place in
according to him yeah is there anyone
who was a part of that that he has been
able to to get as a witness
unfortunately no because obviously these
people would be accessories before the
fact at the very least if not
participants accessories after the fact
and certainly you talked about the
mysterious deaths these people would not
be very prone to talk knowing what the
the penalty might be well but he must
have
and out some way you know I wondered if
by any chance it was a question of
someone from the group informing even if
if for reasons it would be very
obviously well there have been acted let
me put it this way then that there have
been people who have been within the
group or on the periphery of it who have
been able to give him at least part of a
story no one is common that's when I was
driving and I wasn't expecting that
anyone who had helped to plan the
assassination of the president would
come along and say I you know I was a
member of a complaint like former
Minutemen yes help yes there have been a
couple of those because for example as
far as I know it's never been absolutely
proven that such a group existed and
that Oswald was a member of it well
it'll party who had ever been in that
group would be a valuable witness to
that this is much right you see I was
wondering what what the depth was on the
on the witness said yes there has no one
been no one unfortunately who has been
able to tell him that yes I was in this
group yes I was part of the
assassination team at Dealey Plaza yes
so and so and so and so shot from behind
the grass but the point is that
sometimes you have a group that might be
composed to say you know 10 or 15 people
and that doesn't mean that there
wouldn't be a minority even within so
smaller group that was doing something
but at least that any one of those 15
people could testify the people who
belong to this group and who normally
came to our meetings were so-and-so
so-and-so and if Oswald Ferry and Shaw
were three of them then that much would
be established it was that kind of
evidence right also there have been a
couple of cracks in this little
structure there have been well that
looks as if he's gotten that far anyway
yes he is
and with this does he think this is
involved well you mentioned the fact
that there was Cuban participation in
these in these groups Cuban exile yes
yes right may I make a point about this
very early in the when the whole case
about Garrison's investigation broke
they were charged
that pro-castro Cubans had somehow been
involved and some of the press had
picked up the story that at first Guerra
stroke a stroke this is pro-castro this
is the was he right was he left that
pro-castro elements were involved in the
assassination and the press allegedly
stated or stated that allegedly garrison
had actually conceded as this of this is
possibly one of the elements in the
conspiracy I'm talking about certain
sections of the press the fact is that
at no time was this a possibility when
garrison launched his investigation in
fact through all the investigations that
he has conducted there's one thing that
does stand out and that is that Oswald
who does play of course an important
role in this whole case all his
associations during his entire trip both
through New Orleans and Dallas were with
elements that can be considered
paramilitary right-wing groups and that
all its associations were primarily of a
right-wing extremist nature there is no
evidence to show that he was well as the
press had identified him as a leftist
this was hell yes it did come out that
he had made approaches to certain
left-wing groups but I remember that
within days or at least very shortly
after the assassination that there
wasn't also a news item about the fact
that at one time he had volunteered to
train people to go in on the Bay of Pigs
invasion in other words the completely
contrary story now that hit the press
sometime very quickly after the
assassination and then died I never saw
anything more about that but I clearly
remember this because it made a great
deal more sense in the context of what
one knew about Oswald
you know then than the other story and
so I do remember it yes I think what you
referring to is an
incident when Oswald had approached a
anti-castro refugee by the name of
Carlos spring we're in New Orleans and
apparently this it's my belief that when
Oswald had done this he had blown his
cover so to speak about his connections
with the CIA at this particular point
because bring where had become
immediately suspicious of Oswald that he
was a double agent now while he was in
New Orleans
Oswald managed to get himself a lot of
publicity
and I don't think this was quite
undelivered I think this was on the part
of an expected cover that he was
expected to assume he got on a program
on radio WDSU in which he debated a
person who was connected with a group
called Inca which was the information
Council of America now this group was
connected with right-wing anti-castro
refugees and had extensive operations in
connection with Latin American
revolutions you know the thing about
this Inca group is that a number of
individuals who connected with this
particular group one of them for example
is a man by the name of Mario Bermudez
who is the man who helped arrange the
trip for Clay Shaw when he was here in
San Francisco
now if you'll recall one of the things
that Perry Raymond Russo had said in his
testimony before the grand jury was that
part of the plot that was to be executed
on a day of November 22nd when President
Kennedy was killed part of this plot
would have to have the principles of the
case in other cities at the time so that
no suspicion would be drawn upon them
and it just curious to see that this man
Bermudez is arranging a trip for Clay
Shaw
the man who has now been charged with
conspiring to kill the president and
here is this group Inca which manages to
arrange this particular debate with
Oswald while he's in New Orleans with
Oswald taking a view contrary at
point to the right-wing view well he on
this program he took a view that he was
a leftist who identifies yes that's what
evolution yes quite but there was I do
distinctly remember the seeing the item
that he had in spite of the fact that he
was supposed to be on this you know
Friends of Cuba you know the what was
the name of the committee you know fair
play for clear play for Cuba and so on
that that he also had been in but had
volunteered at one time to train people
to go in on the Bay of Pigs invasion
Cuban exile the Carlos Bernier episode
because he appeared voluntarily in bryn
years office Bernier was a probably one
of the best known of the anti-castro
exiles down there and he as a sign of
good faith he presented Bernie air with
his Marine Corps drill manual or Field
Manual and brynee air felt that he
couldn't be trusted that maybe was a
plant and had nothing more to do with
them although that little altercation
were brynee air when Oswald was out in
front of the International Trade Mart
with his fair play for Cuba handbills
and brynee air comes up and his little
altercation and Oswald said well go
ahead hit me if you want Carlos you know
it almost was sounds like it was staged
that that house well really was trying
to say well look I'm on your side and
all the evidence points that way well
everything that one has ever read would
give one the impression certainly that
Oswald whether by design and further on
behalf of just himself or other people
was certainly playing both sides of the
street oh yeah
and so therefore have you a choice
sister side of the street he was really
in the payoff well when you like why
would eyes will be associating with a
guy like Jack Ruby and garrison has
abundant evidence to show that he was
why would he be associated with a man
like that who really is that political
on the surface at least this isn't
somebody that Oswald would just pick up
and associate with because he really
didn't like nightlife that much to go
the carousel club well what role does
garrison finger Ruby did play in
garrison feels that that Ruby was
manipulated in this thing probably by
the Dallas police no I don't know it's
too general probably by key people
within the Dallas Police and that for
example he'll mentioned Jim falen's
article in The Saturday Evening Post
which made garrison look a little
ridiculous and one of the means of
ridicule that that falen used in this
was to sit quote garrison is that you
have to look at this in the
looking-glass almost like a Lewis
Carroll you know and this was source of
great hilarity but it's really true you
do have to look at certain aspects of it
in the looking-glass you have to look at
Oswald in the looking-glass you'd have
to look at ruby his facade was that he
would go around in the time between the
assassination and his own killing of
Oswald and he'd go down to the box the
postal box and where Weissman Weissman's
answers to his advertisement the black
border to ad wanted for trees and
President Kennedy was coming in and said
oh isn't that awful and draw attention
to himself there he would go out in the
middle of the night and call up one of
his employees Larry Crawford at the club
and go out and photograph the billboard
that says impeach Earl Warren isn't that
awful and these tender remarks about
Jacqueline Kennedy and sparing or the
our deal well in other words this was a
an attempt to draw attention to the fact
that he was really very Pro Kennedy in
very incensed that anybody would kill
Kennedy and therefore it creates a
certain illusion and that's what
garrison means by the looking-glass yes
I can see that but where does he think
ruby really was does he think that ruby
was a part of this conspiracy and it's
obvious that whoever that if there were
a
Spira say that mr. Oswald was very
definitely the Patsy yeah well for
example ever he expected to be that's
what he that's what he was yeah I'll
illustrate by one of the statement of
one witness sworn statement Garrison's
files
I can't name the man and but it's really
doesn't make any difference
he's evaluated is probably a reliable
witness
this man was a an artist sort of a
transient artist he'd go from town to
town he got a little bit on the shorts
in Dallas and he went into the Dallas or
no he went up to this HL hunt sons
business office and asked you know if he
could give him a little dough or
something and HL hunt son said well I
don't give up you go down the Dallas
Police Department
give him your social security number and
they'll take care of you this man said
he went down there
he gave a social security number the
officer fixed him up with a some kind of
a chit that would get him a full tank of
gas and he was given a little pocket
money when he said that point Jack Ruby
came up and said well maybe I can get
you the least a temporary job and he
said that Ruby gave him a certain amount
of money a nominal sum and said now you
go down to Alexandria Louisiana and
check in the Bentley hotel there and
somebody will contact you further
now this man and his wife cooperates us
I went and the hotel records cooperate
they went to the Bentley hotel at least
a quadrate that they checked in there
fine his story is that he was no sooner
in there and he was contacted by a man
as phone rang come down a lobby and it
was Oswald and Oswald conferred with
them and made a what at the time he
considered a very cryptic statement to
the effect that very soon some catholic
leaders will be killed which he
interview you know god
well what good eyes will sing he was
supposed to do or anything what did they
could he said he'd been contacted
further you know just he would just
cooperate or confirming that he'd
arrived and then there was no further
contact and after a few days this guy
left now the whole annals of this
is filled with these kind of fits and
starts
they seemed but there was another
incident a man by the name of Donald
Norton who claims that he is a former
CIA unpeople who worked for CIA on
certain assignments said number one that
at one time he was sent to Atlanta and
that he met a man at the Atlanta Airport
who gave him he was a courier Norton was
a courier he was to deliver this amount
of money to Havana and this was in 58
before Castro got to power and that the
man who gave him the money was an
Eastern Airlines pilot named Hugh Farris
while he later identifies Hugh Ferris as
being Dave Ferry and ferry was indeed an
Eastern Airlines pilot he also said he
was on another courier assignment to
Monterrey Mexico and in the course of
this assignment he delivered money to
Oswald a man he now identifies as Lee
Oswald this was in September of 62 and
then took documents from Oswald he
doesn't know what they were and
delivered them to Calgary Alberta Canada
where a man gave him the password it's a
fine day in Tulsa and it was an oil firm
employee and he delivered the documents
to him I mean he got paid by the
assignment he said he got $5,000 for
that assignment no again this man has
been subdued think it all happens on TV
but I did well that this thing is almost
a realistic at times I feel it it's to
James Bondish to be true but the facts
are there and it really is this is the
way it's turning out and he feels them
that all of this or at least a good deal
of it can be brought to light during the
trial of the sky Shaw if he can you know
he doesn't he garrison has made a
statement he said I just hope the
American people don't think that the
Shaw trial is going to bring out
everything because he's a naturally we
can only introduce what is material and
relevant and as he said
is not at the center of this at all Shaw
was off to the side somewhere
ergo he won't be able to tell the whole
story at this trial and I know that he
has a couple of other arrests in mind
but this of course as I say he is so
afraid of now with the Shaw trial and
with this attack against him that he
just has to clear the decks and he wants
to get the shot trial over with before
he starts on what he considers to be the
next step
yeah he's made a motion an open court
and again this the attempt to to abort
the shot trial is very evident again
Shaw himself seems to have CIA
connections now the Foreign Press has
reported this have not read word one
about it in the domestic press but in
1958 Shaw was on the board of directors
of a Rome corporation called the World
Trade Center now he through his attorney
Shaw through his attorney admits he was
on this board of directors he said
however he was merely asked to be on it
by his own board of directors at the
International Trade Mart now on his
board of directors are some very strange
people one of them is a secretary the
Italian neo-fascist party another is a
son-in-law of Nazi finance minister
Hjalmar Schacht another is a fella who
is now an executive of the Bank of
Montreal and he's a former OSS major by
the name of LM Bloomfield this group was
kicked out of Italy the World Trade
Center because although it seemed to
have plenty of money it never did any
extensible business and they suspected
the Italian police that it was a CIA
front and is now headquartered in
Johannes burg South Africa under the
same name which probably a more friendly
climate it also had a subsidiary
corporation in Switzerland which
likewise was ousted by the Swiss police
because it
was suspected of being a conduit for
funds for the OAS movement the algeri
Frances movement in Algeria so I must
say that mr. Shaw can explain this in
terms of his just innocently being asked
to go on the board I will have to say
then that that's the entire board of
directors of the International Trade
Mart new mart and new orleans are either
extremely naive or involved with the CIA
yes may I just make this point bill has
brought up an interesting point and that
is the further the deeper you get
involved in this the more that
connections you see not only with
respect to quasi legal and also secret
groups such as the CIA and other
operations but you can see this this
involves the connections of people who
are more or less in a position where
they can use people for certain ends now
for example Clay Shaw it will say is in
a position as director of the
International Trade Mart to oversee
operations of the second largest seaport
in this country now even Gordon Novell
who is one of the witnesses that
garrison is seeking to extradite from
another state and in fact has had very
little success which bill has mentioned
that there have been obstructing one of
the things he's had difficulty in his
and getting people extradited from
different states there are three states
now that have refused to extradite
material witnesses in this case anyway
Gordon Novell it was a very interesting
character in this whole case who also
has admitted publicly that he has CIA
connections is reported to have said
that clay Shah himself probably was
connected with the CIA
so what I'm trying to make here is that
you can understand why then the short
trial would be blocked from coming and
to court because the connections that
are involved here go very deep within
the government
as I see it and that's this is my belief
why that trial is being obstructed not
only insofar as Shaw's involvement in
the assassination I think has a lot to
do with connections that the government
has set up now I would think that mr.
Garrison's wife was not worth much on
the open market if he proceeds with this
does he travel with a bodyguard does he
feel secure and what motivates this man
now you've met him you've talked to him
what's he in this for you know you hear
the crack well it's a lot of cheap
publicity hasn't gotten it can't prove
anything but it's put him on the front
pages of all papers and all this kind of
thing I would suspect that it was also
able to put him in his coffin well I
believe that this could be the case Elsa
when I first went down to New Orleans
after his case broke I really had some
reservations about what a southern
prosecutor prosecuting attorney was
going to be like and what his motives
might be a little unlikely the whole
thing went a little unlikely I have now
come to the conclusion that Jim Garrison
is an unusual man in an unusual place at
an unusual time now the allegations have
been bandied around that he got into
this thing for political ends and I can
only say that if this was his motivation
that he is extremely ignorant of how
politicians get elected I think it would
indicate rather bad judgment extremely
bad judgment now as I say I was prepared
to meet oh you know a southern
prosecuting attorney I had a stereotype
in my mind which is always bad but I did
and I ran into a man
who was unusual in any region of the
country garrison was at Dachau and I
think this made an indelible impression
of now before the heat's
he's also extremely visit dot-com with
the Allied armies that came upon damage
oh yeah I'm sorry I should have
elucidated a bit on that and I think
that you know the the residual sight
they're just indelibly impressed him
because when he wrote an introduction to
a very well accepted criminology book
before this whole investigation came up
now I understand that his the very fact
that he was asked to write this
introduction is somewhat an honor that
he before this he was well known in
criminology circles it is a very
sensitive and historically based
introduction and he goes back to Dachau
and the apathy of the German people that
permitted this to happen and he draws a
parallel with the kitty Genovese case in
New York were thirty-six people watching
their windows as this girl or slowly
killed and he talks about this lack of
commitment and lack of involvement and
maybe I just read the the tail end of
this allegory that he brings up at the
end of his introduction and he's talking
about some extraterrestrial being who
happens upon our self destroyed earth at
some future date and and happens upon
this human skull and and the here's what
garrison writes in his allegory he puts
the words in the mouth of this being a
last poor man a fellow of most Infinite
Jest of most excellent fancy
where are your gibbets now your thumb
screws and your gallows your treasure
hates and your cruelties what happened
to your disinterested millions your
uncommitted and uninvolved your
preoccupied and bored where today are
their private horizons and they're
married worlds of self where is their
splendid indifference now now this this
is Garrison really when you talk to the
man we're both in the FBI and he
to me about a particular weapon that's
in a photograph and I said I don't know
what it is Jim a matter of fact I don't
like guns and he says isn't that funny
he said I don't either
so he's a rather unusual a prosecutor
and he's an extremely sensitive man he
told me you know a year ago before this
whole thing started he said I was these
are these Vietnam I was what you might
call a mild hawk he says I'm really a
dove now he said this whole thing has
changed my thinking now if this is a
fool or a knave or a political
opportunists as so be it but I just
don't believe it and I think that the
press has portrayed them in this light
and they have portrayed them in this
light in a very calculated manner and I
think that we have a a very definite
problem here in New Orleans as garrison
puts it I am probably the only
prosecutor not defendant that has been
convicted in the press prior to the
trial and if they can silence garrison
and when I say they I mean the
orchestrated attack from obviously from
Washington obviously involving the mass
media if they can silence garrison I'm
afraid they'll be able to silence anyone
if they can betray him and unfair light
I think they can do it to anyone and I
think that there's over and above or
maybe parallel to the issue of who
killed Kennedy there is this issue of
the process in the United States and
it's completely slanted coverage of what
is going on down there is there anything
else you would like to say about what
you envisage is the future progress of
this before we close the interview well
yeah both of you well I think that the
as I say every day there seems to be a
new development in Garrison's case not
not that a makes of papers but
internally I have seen as evidence
practically all of it at any rate
because I've having researched the
Minutemen a year and a half ago and the
Minutemen being involved in this thing I
would suppose that much of the
information I have is valuable to his
investigation I would say that he has a
very excellent case it gets better every
day and if as we both stated that if we
were back in the FBI and we could had
6,000 agents around the country and we
could get on that teletype and market
urgent and send out these leads that
this assassination conspiracy would be
solved inside of three weeks and they
have conspirators would be in jail but
as a outlined to you garrison has very
limited jurisdiction only within the
parish of Orleans he has encountered all
kinds of obstructionist tactics from the
FBI from the national press from the
governors of the various states from
people within his own bailiwick even
from an infiltrator in his own
organization which CBS gave national
coverage to and CBS's has yet to report
that that Dean Andrews has been
convicted of perjury so when Andrews I
take it was the man you referred to as
having infiltrated the garrison
no William Gurwitch is the one who
infiltrated down there and then went on
and made some very anti garrison
statements and saying that the man was
didn't have a case and this CBS
interrupted its four-part series to put
garbage on but they didn't interrupt
their series the next night the report
that garbage had been allowed to testify
as to what factual material he had
before the grand jury in New Orleans and
the grand jury decided that he didn't
have any facts they didn't interrupt
their program for that well what about
the man who was convicted of perjury
because I don't know here Dean Andrews
is the attorney in New Orleans who I
originally told you that
Clay Shaw is alleged to be Clay Bertram
Dean Andrews is the attorney whom
Bertram referred Oswald to him I see and
he's the one that got the phone call the
day after the assassination from clay
Bertram the defenders old and perjured
himself about this yes it was about this
he was very note with no qualifications
at all he told the Warren Commission
that he could positively identify this
clay Bertram and if he ever got his
hands on time he'd he'd drag him right
in so he's at he's hauled before a some
kind of a hearing down there to to see
whether he can identify Clay Shaw or not
as clay Bertram and he said I just you
know I wouldn't be able to identify
anyone as whether was clay Bertram or
not he's completely changed his story
and when Mark Lane tried to interview
him well this was two years ago why
first he said yes fine come on up by the
time Mark Lane got to his office why he
said gosh I'm sorry I can't discuss
anything about it I called Washington
and they even have an effect told me
that if I say anything well get a hole
in my head so we saw take you to dinner
at all so this is a kind of thing that
constantly comes up this intimidation of
witnesses is trying to either bribe them
or or lure them to tell a different
story yes no yes bill mentioned bill
garbage I want to show the very subtle
ways in which the press can distort the
picture CBS had presented bill garbage
and in fact the press throughout the
country had presented bill garbage as
Garrison's chief investigator now the
fact is that garbage was never the chief
investigator as a matter of fact if I'm
not correct bill isn't the assistant
ranking District Attorney the chief
investigator yeah Hal Garrison's office
doesn't really have a pecking order
there but Charles Ward is
the assistant district at senior
district to that but they have a man a
detective posted from the New Orleans
Police Department who really is the
chief investigators his name is Luis
Ivan that's correct
and he succeeded a man by the name of
Persian girl ace Wenger vase resigned or
a year or two ago right now CBS in
presenting this didn't present you know
interpreters real relationship to this
garrison investigation he wasn't on a
payroll he had volunteered his
information or his services and this of
course did not come out in CBS interview
another curious and interesting thing
about this is the timing of garbages
resignation or you know declining to
associate himself any further with this
investigation when did this occur this
occurred at the end of June of this year
1967 when at the very time the
Associated Press and CBS and NBC were
all coming out with their programs I
don't think that this timing is just
accidental I think it in my own view I
think this was a deliberate timing to
sort of create the impression that
garrison was a totally discredited
figure and that he was that his
investigation had no validity to it but
I gather from all the detailed
information and statements that you have
given and also the overall complexion of
what you both had to say that you feel
that a garrison has a case and that this
is a man of high ideals and integrity
who is attempting to do something that
he believes in is that but then I I
definitely feel that garrison is a very
committed man and that he feels the that
this is very definitely a conspiracy
here and that come hell or high water
it's his duty to investigate their
conspiracy to bring to justice those who
were involved in it at least as far as
his own jurisdiction
in Orleans Parish is concerned and it
would have been far more in his own
interests as far as political
aspirations any future aspirations to
have merely said when ferry died well
there goes my chief witness that's the
case and forget it
he would have had a much better chance
of becoming Louisiana Senator or
whatever these aspirations are supposed
to be and I certainly hope he does have
political ambitions because I'd like to
see a man of his caliber in high office
well as I understand it he says that
he's going to go on with this if it
takes him in the next thirty years but I
believe that now our time is up and I
want to thank you very much
William Turner and he'll verb for coming
in to our studios